.\" Copyright (c) 2024 Roger Hunen
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH TZSP2PCAPNG 8  "25 July 2025"
.SH NAME
tzsp2pcapng \- TZSP (TaZmen Sniffer Protocol) stream to PcapNG converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B tzsp2pcapng
[
.B \-fhPvz
]
[
.B \-C
.I rotate_bytes
]
[
.B \-F
.I ip_address
]
[
.B \-G
.I rotate_seconds
]
[
.B \-H
.I hardware
]
.br
.ti +12
[
.B \-I
.I interface
]
[
.B \-O
.I operating_system
]
[
.B \-p
.I port
]
[
.B \-w
.I file
]
[
.B \-z
.I command
]
.br
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fITzsp2pcapng\fP receives a TZSP (TazMen Sniffer Protocol) stream of packets
from a remote sniffer and converts the packets to  PcapNG (or Pcap) formatted
data. The TZSP encapsulation is stripped. \fITzsp2pcapng\fP continues to receive
and convert packets until it is interrupted by SIGINT or SIGTERM.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C " file_size"
After writing a packet to a savefile, check whether the file is currently
larger than \fIfile_size\fP and, if so, close the current file and open a new
one.  Files after the first savefile will have the name specified with the
\fB-w\fP flag, with a number after it, starting at 1 and continuing upward.
The unit of \fIfile_size\fP is bytes.
.TP
.B \-f
Flush the output after each packet written. Using this flag may negatively
affect performance.
.TP
.BI \-F " ip_address"
Accept TZSP messages only from \fIip_address\fP. The default is to accept
TZSP traffic from any IP address.
.TP
.BI \-G " file_age"
After writing a packet to a savefile, check whether the file is currently
older than \fIfile_age\fP and, if so, close the current file and open a new
one. Files after the first savefile will have the name specified with the
\fB-w\fP flag, with a number after it, starting at 1 and continuing upward.
The unit of \fIfile_age\fP is seconds.
.TP
.B \-h
Print program name, program version and basic usage to \fIstderr\fP and exit.
.TP
.BI \-H " hardware"
Set the hardware option in the PcapNG Section Header Block, for example to
characterize the hardware of the remote sniffer. The default value is the
\fImodel name\fP value from \fI/proc/cpuinfo\fP. This flag cannot be used
with the \fB-P\fP flag.
.TP
.BI \-I " interface"
Set the description option in the PcapNG Interface Description Block, for
example to characterize the capturing interface of the remote sniffer. The
default value is \fIEthernet\fP. This flag cannot be used with the \fB-P\fP
flag.
.TP
.B \-O
Set the operating system option in the PcapNG Section Header Block, for
example to characterize the operating system of the remote sniffer. The
default value is a string composed from local system data returned by
\fBuname\fP(2). This flag cannot be used with the \fB-P\fP flag.
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
Receive TZSP messages on UDP \fIport\fP. The default UDP port is 37008.
.TP
.B \-P
Format output data as Pcap instead of PcapNG. This flag disables the
\fB-H\fP, \fB-I\fP and \fB-O\fP flags.
.TP
.B \-v
Print verbose output on \fIstderr\fP.
.TP
.BI \-w " file"
Write packet data to \fIfile\fP. The default is to write the packet data
to \fIstdout\fP.
.TP
.BI \-z " command"
Used in conjunction with the \fB-C\fP or \fB-G\fP flags, this will make
\fItzsp2pcapng\fP run "\fIcommand file\fP" where file is the savefile being
closed after each rotation. For example, specifying \fB-z gzip\fP or
\fB-z bzip2\fP will compress each savefile using gzip or bzip2.
.IP
Note that \fItzsp2pcapng\fP will run the command in parallel to the capture,
using the lowest priority so that this doesn't disturb packet processing.
In case you would like to use a command that itself takes flags or different
arguments, you can write a shell script that will take the savefile name as
the only argument, make the flags & arguments arrangements and execute the
command that you want.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tcpdump (8)
.SH AUTHOR
\fITzsp2pcapng\fP was written by Roger Hunen.
.SH CAVEATS
The current version of \fItzsp2pcapng\fP only supports Ethernet (link layer
type 1). Packet timestamps reflect the time when \fItzsp2pcapng\fP received
the TZSP message, not the time when the remote sniffer captured the packet.
\fITzsp2pcapng\fP has only been tested with MikroTik RouterOS 7 as a remote
sniffer.
